add more explains and examples for `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements (#15104)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-select.md

The above example uses data generated with `tiup bench tpcc prepare`. The first query shows the use of `TABLESAMPLE`.

### SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE

The `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statement is used to write the result of a query to a file.

> **Note:**
>
> - This statement is only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

> > - This statement does not support
> writing query results to any [external storages](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-storages) such as Amazon S3 or GCS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - This statement does not support writing query results to any [external storages](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-storages) such as Amazon S3 or GCS.
```

The above example uses data generated with `tiup bench tpcc prepare`. The first query shows the use of `TABLESAMPLE`.

### SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE

`SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` is used to write the result of a query to a file. You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify how to handle the data format. Common output formats are comma separated (CSV) and tab separated (TSV).

- `FIELDS TERMINATED BY`: specifies the data delimiter.
- `FIELDS ENCLOSED BY`: specifies the enclosing character of the data.
- `LINES TERMINATED BY`: specifies the line terminator, if you want to end a line with a certain character.

Below are some examples, first create a table and prepare some data:

```sql
mysql> create table t (a int, b varchar(10), c decimal(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> insert into t values (1, 'a', 1.1), (2, 'b', 2.2), (3, 'c', 3.3);
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.01 sec)
```

> Then here are some `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements and their results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements and their results.

Example 1:

```

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM t INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/tmp_file1';
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In this example, you can find the query result in `/tmp/tmp_file1` as follows:

```

The above example uses data generated with `tiup bench tpcc prepare`. The first query shows the use of `TABLESAMPLE`.

### SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE

`SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` is used to write the result of a query to a file. Column and line terminators can be specified to produce a specific output format.

> You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify how to handle the data format.

Reviewer 3: Isn't this duplicating the previous sentence?

Author: OK, I merged these 2 lines.

> `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` is used to write the result of a query to a file. Field and line terminators can be specified to produce a specific output format. Common output formats are comma separated (CSV) and tab separated (TSV).
> 
> You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify how to handle the data format.

Author: ```suggestion
`SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` is used to write the result of a query to a file. You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify how to handle the data format.. Common output formats are comma separated (CSV) and tab separated (TSV).
```

- `FIELDS TERMINATED BY`: specifies the data delimiter.
- `FIELDS ENCLOSED BY`: specifies the enclosing character of the data.
- `LINES TERMINATED BY`: specifies the line terminator, if you want to end a line with a certain character.

Below are some examples, first create a table and prepare some data:

```sql
mysql> create table t (a int, b varchar(10), c decimal(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> insert into t values (1, 'a', 1.1), (2, 'b', 2.2), (3, 'c', 3.3);
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.01 sec)
```

Then here are some `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements and their results.

```sql

> mysql> select * from t into outfile '/tmp/tmp_file1';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mysql> SELECT * FROM t INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/tmp_file1';
```

Best to uppercase keywords in SQL

Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

```
1       a       1.10
2       b       2.20
3       c       3.30

> ```

Reviewer 3: Maybe do something like ```mysql> ! cat /tmp/tmp_file1```  to make it more obvious that this isn't outputed by the client, but being written to the file?

The above example uses data generated with `tiup bench tpcc prepare`. The first query shows the use of `TABLESAMPLE`.

### SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE

> `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` is used to write the result of a query to a file. You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify how to handle the data format. Common output formats are comma separated (CSV) and tab separated (TSV).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statement is used to write the result of a query to a file. You can use the `Fields` and `Lines` parameters to specify the data format of the output file. Common output formats include comma-separated values (CSV) and tab-separated values (TSV).
```

- `FIELDS TERMINATED BY`: specifies the data delimiter.
- `FIELDS ENCLOSED BY`: specifies the enclosing character of the data.
- `LINES TERMINATED BY`: specifies the line terminator, if you want to end a line with a certain character.

> Below are some examples, first create a table and prepare some data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assume that there is a table `t` with three columns as follows:
```

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t (a INT, b VARCHAR(10), c DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t VALUES (1, 'a', 1.1), (2, 'b', 2.2), (3, 'c', 3.3);
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.01 sec)

> 

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
```

````

> ```sql
> mysql> create table t (a int, b varchar(10), c decimal(10,2));
> Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
> 
> mysql> insert into t values (1, 'a', 1.1), (2, 'b', 2.2), (3, 'c', 3.3);
> Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.01 sec)
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t (a INT, b VARCHAR(10), c DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t VALUES (1, 'a', 1.1), (2, 'b', 2.2), (3, 'c', 3.3);
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.01 sec)
```
```

Here are some `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements and their results.

Example 1:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```sql
mysql> SELECT * FROM t INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/tmp_file1';
Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

In this example, you can find the query result in `/tmp/tmp_file1` as follows:

```
1       a       1.10
2       b       2.20
3       c       3.30
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Example 2:

```

```sql

> mysql> select * from t into outfile '/tmp/tmp_file2' fields terminated by ',' enclosed by '"';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mysql> SELECT * FROM t INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/tmp_file2' FIELDS TERMINATED BY ',' ENCLOSED BY '"';
```

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In this example, you can find the query result in `/tmp/tmp_file2` as follows:

```

```
"1","a","1.10"
"2","b","2.20"
"3","c","3.30"
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Example 3:

```

```sql

> mysql> select * from t into outfile '/tmp/tmp_file3' fields terminated by ',' enclosed by '\'' lines terminated by '<<<\n';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mysql> SELECT * FROM t INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/tmp_file3' FIELDS TERMINATED BY ',' ENCLOSED BY '\'' LINES TERMINATED BY '<<<\n';
```

Query OK, 3 rows affected (0.00 sec)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In this example, you can find the query result in `/tmp/tmp_file3` as follows:

```

'3','c','3.30'<<<
```

## MySQL compatibility

- The syntax `SELECT ... INTO @variable` is not supported.
- The syntax `SELECT ... INTO DUMPFILE` is not supported.
- The syntax `SELECT .. GROUP BY expr` does not imply `GROUP BY expr ORDER BY expr` as it does in MySQL 5.7. TiDB instead matches the behavior of MySQL 8.0 and does not imply a default order.

> - The syntax `SELECT ... TABLESAMPLE ...` is a TiDB extension and not supported by MySQL.

Reviewer 3: We *could* mention https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=92759 here, but I'm not sure if we should. We may also add information here about this being compatible with other database systems and [ISO/IEC 9075-2](https://standards.iso.org/iso-iec/9075/-2/ed-6/en/)

Reviewer 3: Looks like this has been part of the standard since ISO/IEC 9075-2:2003

Reviewer 2: Because this section focuses on the difference between TiDB and MySQL, there seems no need to mention why MySQL does not support `SELECT ... TABLESAMPLE ...`.  Can we update the sentence as follows?

```suggestion
- The syntax `SELECT ... TABLESAMPLE ...` is a TiDB extension designed for compatibility with other database systems and the [ISO/IEC 9075-2](https://standards.iso.org/iso-iec/9075/-2/ed-6/en/) standard, but currently it is not supported by MySQL.
```
